See the screenshots from my example MUD Willowdale for quest flow that I’d like to steal:

Changes to quests:
Mobs that have a quest or interesting info the player can take show a [!] before their name
We collapse the ask and talk commands for interacting with mobs into one command, just talk <npcname>
When talking to a PC, if they have more than 1 quest or topic you can explore, it shows a numbered menu with the different topics listed. The menu items that are quests are color/highlighted so they show up differently in the dialogue than info options
Every quest offers an option to take the quest or leave in the menu chain
All quests start and end with a npc questgiver. No exceptions
Quests, rooms, zones, items, mobs, etc are all chained/cross-reference with each other in the web editing menus, with the ability to click through the reference links to examine this mob that is a quest giver or part of quest X and this item that is required
Quest mini-map can point at a room, an npc, a zone, or a defined area. It can also just say “destination unknown”, but that needs to be a rare exception rather than the rule and create log warnings (not a crash). We have to find a way to show in the minimap interface that the quest destination is “somewhere in this zone” or “somewhere in these highlighted rooms”. Guidance arrows on the mini-map paths to the nearest room in the zone or area
Hint text should be required for every quest step
Performing an action like “cast conviction-spike at mote” should key on the cast attempt, not on some arbitrary user input text string
Exploring a room/area can be a trigger for quest step progression
Acquiring an item can be a trigger for quest step progression
Talking to an NPC can be a trigger for quest spell progression
Observing an event can be a trigger for quest step progression
Using a specific command/spell can be a trigger for quest step progression
But all of these will still require you to go back to the original quest giver and turn in the quest. Even very long quest chains are a closed loop
Quest should be vastly simplified and some things that are now quests really should be something else. 
For example, the Blackrazor quest could simply by paying to learn the recipe and only be available as an option when the crafting skill thresholds are met
Quests like the one to take a portal out of the pothole coulee should just be info dialogue, not a quest. You can’t make it a closed loop if there is no way back into the pothole coulee
Quests should chain together logically and simply and be taken one at a time. The way I chose to dump tons of quests in a new player’s lap at the start of entering the PolholeCoulee was a bad idea. Players can choose to take a ton of quests, but they shouldn’t receive tons at once
It should be obvious in the quest dialogue text if you have a series of related quests and they should chain together in the dialogue in a way that you have the option to take the next quest in a chain as part of turning the first one in. A → B → C, but each quest is itself still a closed loop

Not changing:
Keep the in-game toast for quest progression and the hints for quests. Add hints to every step and require it
Keep the mini-map guidance arrows to quest step destinations
Quests should still be progressable by giving items to a questgiver if that is what they asked for, in addition to talking through the quest menus. Giving the items for the quest will treat it like choosing the option in the quest menu and output the same way
Keep the mechanisms for rewarding quest completion with gold, stats/attributes, skills, items, spell discovery, recipe discovery


One other unrelated note - Willowdale's texis easier to read at a maller size than ours and their side panels are more compact, giving more room for the text. We may want to look at tweaking our web client to work better on laptops and smaller screens like Willowdale does.
